oh before i board my flight i just want
to remind you that our seat discomfort
holiday drop is currently live on
seekdiscomfort.com i'm actually wearing
it right now and if you make a purchase
of any size either today
sunday as this video comes out or
tomorrow on cyber monday we will be
choosing one person today and one person
tomorrow to join us next year for a yes
theory episode
so go and see discomfort.com right now
and join the seeker
family and now time to board the fight
imagine a country tucked away from the
rest of the world
hidden in the himalayas left to its own
devices to develop in unique and
incredible ways
that made sense for not only its own
culture but also for its entire
ecosystem some people claim that this
country is the happiest
in the world the last shangri-la and is
in fact the only country in the world
to be carbon negative meaning it's
producing three times more oxygen
than it consumes meet the country of
bhutan
so what makes this place so special are
the people there
truly the happiest and what have they
understood about the environment the
rest of us haven't
well after a recent trip to india for an
upcoming episode i went on my second
solo trip this month to visit the small
country
squeezed between the two most populated
countries on the planet the place is
phased with lots of ceronic pressure
and so with an open mind and loss of
questions let my 72-hour trip to the
magical country of bhutan
[Music]
begin
uh
welcome to bhutan oh all right
this has got to be the most beautiful
airport i've ever seen in my life
what and even the freaking conveyor belt
for our luggage
is beautiful so the thing
about bhutan is that you're not allowed
to come here without an official tour
guide assigned to you and they hook you
up with hotels visas
transportation which means that i have a
guide waiting for me out here hi
how are you how are you fine yes great
to meet you man this is beautiful
i like it what was your name
so welcome this car for you thank you so
much great
wow awesome once again welcome to bhutan
thank you so much
i'm super excited to explore and and
learn about how
bhutan is apparently the happiest
country in the world right
[Applause]
[Music]
he's freaking huge the main goal for
today
is to turn lp into the first bhutanese
vlogger here you go
it's your turn but first what are we
doing right now we're going in the
buddha statue
it's one of the largest sitting buddha
in the world so 210 feet
[Music]
[Applause]
wow
after exploring a few more iconic places
in bhutan i felt amazed by the scenery
yet i still had so many unanswered
questions why do some
call this place the happiest country how
does their society differ from any other
place in the world and just as these
questions came to mind
my friend kevin we had met in thailand
last year heard that i was in bhutan
and had a connection to the perfect man
to answer all of this the ex-prime
minister
of bhutan and so funnily enough before
beginning the hour-long drive over to
his house to interview him
i was walking over to go get him a gift
and i noticed
something strange i just went on a quick
little walk
and as i'm walking around i'm slowly
starting to notice that this country has
a weird
obsession with penises
there's penises on a lot
of different buildings i've been like
kind of seeing it and i was like oh that
guy's got a penis on his house and they
kind of like not really think about it
and now as i've been walking around i'm
noticing this is not a coincidence or a
one-off situation
people in bhutan really like penises
okay so i have to ask you because i want
to make sure i get that
story on camera what's the deal with all
the penises on all the houses
yeah to protect to protect from the evil
and the coast does anybody find it funny
or is it always
just seen that it's part of the culture
yeah it's part of culture for us it's
usually the original touristy tech means
they feel shy
yeah so that's why i don't talk much
about that yeah
oh my god well you learn something every
day so we are about to go meet
the ex-prime minister of bhutan and we
need to bring him a gift i can't believe
these
freaking penises it feels like such a
juxtaposition next to
all of these religious buddha statues
and then there's just
a whole bunch of cooks what do you think
that one
i don't know if i'm confident enough to
bring a penis as a gift you know what
i'm saying
which one would you recommend uh that
one yeah this one and those are the four
doorways to heaven that's pretty nice
yeah
yeah we'll do that thank you so much
all right now we gotta run and so after
getting the gift so we drove an hour to
finally sit down
with the ex-prime minister thank you so
much for agreeing to do this on such a
last-second notice i just want to start
by asking you for somebody who doesn't
know
the basics of the girl's happiness
income
gross wrestling girl's national
happiness yeah i know i really don't
know
but gross national happiness is
basically a development philosophy
that acknowledges that economic growth
is important
but that economic growth must not be
mindless
it should also be sustainable
environmentally sustainable
and it also should be equally spread
throughout
society until recently bhutan was the
only country in the world that's carbon
neutral
okay and now suriname is also carbon
neutral so
the two countries but i mean we have 195
countries in the world today
and to have two countries and that to
two small countries just two countries
that are carbon neutral is not
acceptable
in bhutan we sequester about three times
more carbon dioxide than we emit as a
nation
traditional economist would have advised
his majesty the king to
harvest the forest yet he didn't and all
i can say is that he was way ahead of
his times
so some people say bhutan is one of the
happiest countries
in the world do you feel like that's
just like something outsiders say about
bhutan or do you agree with that
statement
or yes and no yes or no yeah it's
something that outsiders say
because they've heard about the
development philosophy of cross national
happiness
and there's a misunderstanding people
have just
concluded that this must be the happiest
country in the world
and yes you may have noticed that we
smile a lot and when we smile we
smile from the depths of our soul you
know who's to say that we are the
happiest people
there are many societies and some
societies may be happier
yet we should ought to be happy also
because
the conditions of happiness are
available in bhutan
free health care free education clean
air natural environment
is the rule of law justice these are all
in place
what does bhutan do that you think other
countries could easily implement
if there is something that we can share
is the importance of leadership
the world knows the importance of
leadership absolutely no doubt
but we have enjoyed the blessings of
enlightened leaders
whether it is our monasteries or whether
it's a wildlife
whether it is a hot tall mountains that
are still
unclimbed yeah all of them ultimately is
because of enlightened leadership
so we are a small country tucked away in
the himalayas
sandwiched between two huge giants yet
our culture is intact our spirituality
is intact
economy is growing gradually but
sustainably and all of this because
of enlightened kings there's a lot of
young people in the world
that are anxious are depressed what do
you think the world can learn about
bhutan's
happiness i guess making happiness a
priority firstly
youth all over the world are anxious
bhutanese yuta anxious
i am anxious but what makes it worse is
because we are so connected now
earlier you are isolated in your own
village
urbanization came and then the internet
and now like
you're not in your cocoon no too much
information
too much emotions we're trying to create
a platform
for people to be able to connect because
i think connection is the big reason too
because we think we're connected because
we're on our phone
yeah but we're not actually having the
real connection in real life yeah our
goal soon is to build
an app that can allow people to just go
out and connect and
find activities to do together tinder
does that right yeah
our society is too small you
well anyways thank you so much for
taking the time i really appreciate it
i think the world will learn a lot from
your wisdom and and i'm so grateful to
have had time in bhutan i'm so grateful
that your wisdom thomas
thank you very much thank you and and a
big hi from bhutan to all your followers
there you go that was so good
i'm so nervous anyway thanks you got a
picture
yeah thank you very much of course thank
you
look at my face
man he was such a kind and wise and
generous human being
i'm blown away
wow so we're going all the way up there
we're hiking straight
up like a mountain pretty much yes on
the hill
okay we are beginning the hike to tigers
nest which is apparently one of the most
holy places in all of bhutan but also
apparently in all of buddhism the second
buddha who's the one that popularized
and spread buddhism all over asia
spent three years three months and three
days
meditating in the cave that's built
right next to the temple
i'm out of breath we barely started
we're super high up in elevation and
we're about to go even higher
is that it wow
are you climbing what 2 100 meter wow
hi buddy
[Music]
where's this guy coming from someone
lost a horse or oh there he is
that's pretty funny that horse was
trying to do the hike on its own today
we're about to peek over the hill we're
going to get a solid first glimpse
it's beautiful
apparently in buddhism culture when you
go hiking you wash away your sins good
for the health good for the body good
for the soul
ah we're getting so close
look at this thing there's just
something
in the air it's like very hard to
describe but all of a sudden my heart
just dropped
ah what a view
oh my god this place is magical for the
last little stretch
you cannot bring any technology with us
you know a lot to film inside
they consider them very holy places and
they want to preserve them you have to
put on pants you have to put on
a shirt to cover your arms i'm so
freaking excited
to go see what this place looks like
we just got out of tiger's nest and i
just had one of the most
intense spiritual moments i've ever
experienced
um at a moment where i closed my eyes
and my grandpa passed away
around this time of the year about four
years ago
i just had a moment where i felt like he
was
and here felt like he would have loved
experiencing this moment with me
but i know that somewhere around here
he did there's just something about this
place that just leaves me
so um uncontrollably emotional
i felt like the sound was muffled around
me i was just so in
awe and taken by the scenery and the
beauty of this place
i feel um grateful right now to
experience this moment
after spending three days in bhutan i
was blown away by what i had learned
but i also think it's safe to say that i
only scratched the surface of
understanding how this country truly
operates there's a surprising
combination of cultural political and
ecological factors
that allows bhutan to exist the way it
does are people there truly the happiest
well i'm not sure but what has given
them that reputation in the past is this
dedication to value the populations and
the environment's overall well-being
over blindly chasing financial gain and
that's the main learning lesson that i
took away
from this trip that bhutan's harmonious
strategy between business and nature
and unwillingness to compromise the
health of this environment is what's
allowed them to flourish the way they
have
and so as we think of our nature moving
forward maybe we should all keep a
little bit of bhutan
in our hearts we'll see you next week
i just want to end this video by giving
a shout out to our friends in beautiful
destinations who provided us with some
of the drone footage and b-roll for this
video
click on the video right here to check
out what they made in bhutan it's
absolutely incredible and 100 percent
worth watching